---
layout: post
title: Flow Origins: 1987, Structured Analysis and Design
--- 

Ah... the good old days, when you were tools to sit down and think about a problem, and try and define it, then 
think on the solution and design it... _before_ starting to write code...

I was working at Hewlett-Packard, in their Telecommunications Division, making high-speed instruments for other
engineers to use to make high-speed things for you! :-)

I was in my second last year at University, in the "placement" period, where I worked one trimester and then all Summer
in industry before starting my last year at Uni.

To help maintain software quality and reliability, HP back then used a formal methodology called 
"Structured Analysis and Design".

## Summary of things that stuck with me
* The use of a visual, hierarchical  decomposition of functionality required to solve a problem. 
  The analysis did this on the problem and the design on the solution, in different ways. Even though
  it's ess implementation focussed, the structured analysis part is what most stuck with me,
  with nested "bubbles" with data flow between them at the same level, to the upper level in hierarchy, 
  and into bubbles that expanded into the next level down. Data in to a level from above had to match
  at the next level up and down.
* The analysis was just the problem description and so shouldn't be thought of in implementation
  terms, yet I did. I liked how it all "just worked" based on the availability of data via a flow
  and how it was inherently parallel. The only thing that "sequenced" a process's execution was the 
  availability of data on it's inputs.
* Not implementation focused, as was all about analysing and understanding the _problem_.
  This is not directly applicable to `flow` but it I've often gone back to that point over the years
  and made a conscious effort to understand a problem well, and be able to describe it (even if in words),
  before trying to solve it.